## algrithom-project

The main goal of this project is to explore the wireless sensor network [3]. WSN is a sensor network that spatially distributed in areas and there are connections among them. The main feature of the implementation is it’s easy to understand and with high efficiency to reach the final goal. This paper divided the whole task into three parts.
In the first part, using python language, random distributed graphs are generated using cell method [4]. By dividing the coordinate system into smaller units which are termed cells, only 8 of surrounding cells need to be checked to generate edges. This method is a linear time algorithm, lots of time can be saved with the input size going up.
In the second part, vertices are colored using the smallest last algorithm. With adjacency list and degree list, nodes can be popped and colored in linear time. In the third part, independent sets which are differentiated from colors are generated for exploring the backbone of the whole graph.

In conclusion, the strength of the whole algorithm is that by using Python, the task can be realized in a concise and understandable way. Also, if we only focus on the algorithm, it is a linear time algorithm. However, because of the nature of python, when implementing, the real running time can only very close to linear time but not a truly linear time unless any function in python are not used. So, when the scale of input is relatively small (less than 64000 in this paper), it can be fast and easy to handle; while when N is equal or larger then 64000, it can be slow. With smaller average degree and more nodes, the speed of the application will slow down.
The following are the results of running, including the graph generated and the degree list, as well as the tables of benchmark and actual data.
Table 1 shows that in reality, the running times of the method and the actual average degrees. N is number of nodes. A is ideal average degree. R can be calculated using equation S1/S2 = average degree/N, where S1 is one node coverage, S2 is the unit graph (unit square, unit disk and unit sphere), average degree is ideal adjacent nodes of each node and the N is the total number of node given by benchmark.
For unit square, 1/𝜋𝑟# = N/A, for disk, 1/𝑟# = N/A. E is chart is the total number of edges in generated graph. Min Deg is the minimum degree whereas Max Deg is maximum degree and Avg. Deg is the real degree of each graph. And RGG time generation time of random geometric graph. (Note: All the time in this paper does not include the visualized graph drawing time.)
